---
layout: default
title: Info 
date: 2024-10-21
location: Genoa
---

# Trees4cat Workshop

#### Università degli Studi di Genova, 21-23 October 2024
#### DIMA - Dipartimento di Matematica

**Links:** [Submissions](https://stagedtrees.github.io/events/2.Submissions.html) - [Program](https://stagedtrees.github.io/events/3.Program.html) - [Info](https://stagedtrees.github.io/events/4.Info.html) - [Participants](https://stagedtrees.github.io/events/5.Participants.html)
{% include image.html width="500px" file="images/geg.png" %}

### How to Reach Genoa

The workshop will take place at the Dipartimento di Matematica (DIMA) of the University of Genoa.
Genoa can be reached either by plane or by train:

 - **By train**: The main train stations in Genoa are Genova Piazza Principe and Genova Brignole, with the latter being the closest to the Math Department. Not all trains to Genova arrive to Genova Brignole, as some arrive to Genova Piazza Principe only. If this is the case for your train, you can reach Genova Brignole either by a short train ride, metro or bus.
 
 - **By plane**: The closest airport is the Genoa Cristoforo Colombo Airport, farther alternatives are Milano Linate, Milano Malpensa and Pisa. To reach the city center you can either take a taxi or the - not so frequent - Volabus, which also stops at the De Ferrari Square and at the Genova Brignole train station. Alternatively, you can take the Airlink service bus to the train station Genova Sestri Ponente Aeroporto (which can also by reached by a 20mins walk in the middle of nowhere) and then take a train going to Genova Brignole. The Airlink requires a bus ticket which also works for the subsequent train ride within the city (if you buy the bus ticket "integrato", costing 2.20 euro).
 
### How to Reach the Department

If you are planning to come to the department by public transport, the best choice is to take the bus 17/ or 16. If you come from the city center, you have to get out at the stop "Europa 1/Ospedale San Martino" and then take a 5 minute walk going up some stairs and going through a metal walkway. Another slightly slower but similar option from the city center is the 44 (getting out at the stop "San Martino 2/Papigliano" plus stairs and metal walkway). Bus tickets can be bought at "Tabacchi" or newspaper shops. Alternatively, you can buy bus tickets on the AMT app (Android, Apple).

**WARNING: Google maps occasionally doesn't show the 16 and 17 buses on its suggestions. You can find its path [here](https://www.amt.genova.it/amt/trasporto-multimodale/partenze/?linea=17&mappa=Mappa) (or use OpenStreetMap).**


If you're coming by car and find the gate closed, you just need to ring the interphone (Dipartimento di Matematica - DIMA) by the gate entrance and say you're here for the conference. After entering go straight untill you reach a big parking lot.

We are currently in contact with local hotels to arrange special deals and possibly have most participants in the same structure. For more details, please contact [the organizing committee](mailto:manuele.leonelli@ie.edu).

### What to Do in Genova and Liguria

Some nice spots to visit in Genoa are: Passeggiata Anita Garibaldi in Nervi and the Nervi park, Boccadasse and Corso Italia, Old port, Aquarium, Belvedere Castelletto which is accessible by foot or elevator, Via Garibaldi (with museums Palazzo Bianco and Palazzo Rosso), Via San Lorenzo and Duomo of San Lorenzo, Giardini Luzzati in the evening, Piazza De Ferrari, and Villa Durazzo Pallavicini. 

Famous destionations around Genoa are Portofino and Cinque Terre (i.e. the five little towns of Monterosso, Vernazza, Corniglia, Manarola, and Riomaggiore), which are great for hiking. Other cool spots for a short visit are  Camogli, Santa Margherita Ligure, Sestri Levante, Lerici and Porto Venere, all on the East of Genova.
  
 
**The event is supported by**

{% include image.html width="1000px" file="images/gnampa.png" %}
{% include image.html width="300px" file="images/logo_orizzontale_COLORE.png" %}
{% include image.html width="500px" file="images/dima_eccellenza.pdf" %}
{% include image.html width="250px" file="images/eccellenza2327.jpeg" %}
