---
layout: default
title: Program
date: 2024-10-21
location: Genoa
---

# Trees4cat Workshop

#### 21-23 October 2024
#### DIMA - Department of Mathematics, University of Genoa, Italy


**Links:** [Main](https://stagedtrees.github.io/events/trees4cat.html) - [Submissions](https://stagedtrees.github.io/events/w2.Submissions.html) - [Program](https://stagedtrees.github.io/events/w3.Program.html) - [Info](https://stagedtrees.github.io/events/w4.Info.html) - [Participants](https://stagedtrees.github.io/events/w5.Participants.html)
{% include image.html width="500px" file="images/geg.png" %}

### Program

The programme is still being finalized but the skeleton is as follows.

#### Monday 21st of October - Tutorials

 - 14:00-16:00 - *Software for staged tree models* (Manuele Leonelli)
 - 16:00-16:45 - Coffee break
 - 16:45-18:45 - *Algebraic statistics of tree models* (Eliana Duarte)

 
#### Tuesday 22nd of October 

 - 09:00-10:00 - Talks
 - 10:00-10:30 - Coffee break
 - 11:30-12:30 - Poster lightning talks
 
 - 12:30-14:30 - Lunch 
 
 - 14:30-15:30 - Talks
 - 15:30-16:00 - Coffee break
 - 16:00-18:00 - Talks
 - 18:00-19:00 - Aperitivo
 
#### Wednesday 23rd of October 

 - 09:00-10:00 - Talks
 - 10:00-10:30 - Coffee break
 - 10:30-12:30 - Talks
 
### Poster Session

There will be posters available throughout the entire workshop to foster interaction and discussion. This provides an opportunity for participants to engage with the research and ideas presented by their peers in an informal setting.

### Social Program

Throughout the event, there will be regular coffee breaks, providing an opportunity to network and discuss ideas in a relaxed setting. Additionally, we will host an aperitivo, where you can enjoy light refreshments and informal conversations with fellow participants. A lunch will also be provided, giving everyone a chance to gather and share a meal together. All these social events will take place at the Department of Mathematics (DIMA), ensuring convenience and a friendly atmosphere. 

### Abstracts

 - *Software for staged tree models* (Manuele Leonelli): This tutorial will focus on the application of software for data analysis using staged tree models, a versatile class of statistical models designed to represent and reason about asymmetric dependence structures and sample spaces. Staged trees offer a flexible framework for modeling complex data dependencies, making them particularly valuable in various real-world scenarios. Participants will be guided through several case studies that highlight the practical utility of staged tree models. These case studies will demonstrate how the software can be employed to gain critical insights into data, uncovering patterns and relationships that might be overlooked by traditional methods. Through hands-on examples, attendees will learn how to build, analyze, and interpret staged tree models, leveraging the software’s capabilities to enhance their data analysis workflows.
 
 - *Algebraic statistics of tree models* (Eliana Duarte):  The goal of this tutorial is to introduce participants to key concepts in algebraic statistics and how these enable us to better understand statistical properties of tree models. One of the main insights in algebraic statistics is that in many cases, statistical models can be defined as the set of solutions to systems of polynomial equations. Understanding algebraic properties of these equations reveal useful properties of the model. The tutorial will start by introducing participants to algebraic concepts such as polynomial rings, ideals and the zero sets that they define via relevant examples in statistics. Next, these concepts will be used to study probability tree models and state the main results about them.

 - *From explanations - to graphs - to geometry - to probabilistic causal reasoning* (Jim Q. Smith): It is not unusual for standard classes of graphical models such as undirected graphical models, Bayesian Networks or staged trees to provide an excellent framework for describing and then analysing their corresponding families of probability models - in particular both their algebraic geometric properties and their causal algebras. But for some applications only a more bespoke family of graphical models can express all the structural information needed to quantify causal inferences. Here I illustrate how it is then still possible to build new bespoke graphs that can then be embellished into other families of statistical to faithfully represent such a domain. Customising models in this way can then lead us to new insightful algebraic geometric descriptions of that domain and in particular more insightful deductions about the causal processes within it, in ways I will illustrate in this talk.

**The event is supported by**


{% include image.html width="1000px" file="images/gnampa.jpeg" %}
{% include image.html width="300px" file="images/ecc.jpg" %}
{% include image.html width="300px" file="images/logo.jpeg" %}
{% include image.html width="300px" file="images/eccellenza2327.jpeg" %}



